---
title: Seamless Testing
layout: default
parent: Features
---

# Eclectique Test Toolkit
Eclectique-Messaging4J comes with a test toolkit that makes it seamsless to write unit test cases involving asynchronous messaging. The toolkit provides the test developer features such as:
- Trigger an external message to the system and verify the changes within the system
- Intercept messages generated by a producer routine and verify the attributes of the message generated

## Photon Messaging System
Before dwelving to the details of using the test toolkit, lets see a new messaging system that comes as a part of the Eclectique Messaging framework - `Photon Messaging System`
Photon is an in-memory messaging system that is built from ground up with focus on testing messaging handler routines within an application. While testing a message producer or consumer, Photon Messaging Service abstracts the messaging system and allows the testing code to send and receive messages from Photon Messaging just like how they can do with any other messaging systems like Apache Kafka, Google Pub/Sub etc...
Photon Messaging System derives its features from common behavior of several messaging service which is the core foundation on which the Eclectique-Messaging framework is built upon. Just like how an application can send and receive asynchronous messages from any messaging system, it can do the same with Photon Messaging System.

### Why Photon Messaging System?
Though Photon Messaging Systems brings the common denominator of different messaging systems together, there are several characteristics that makes Photon ideal for integrating with your test code:
- Running in the same memory space as that of your application
 One of the main charactersic of Photon is, it runs in the same memory space as that of the application code that is getting tested. Unlike any other messaging systems, Photon is not running in a different memory space. This makes request and response processing way faster than handling the same through a messaging system that runs in a different process space.
- Support for rasing multiple instances of a messaging system
